#+LaTeX_CLASS: djcb-org-article
#+LaTeX_CLASS_OPTIONS: [a4paper,12pt]
#+LATEX_CMD: xelatex
#+TITLE: Literature Review
#+DATE:
#+AUTHOR: Michael A Eager
#+LATEX_HEADER:\usepackage[sort,round]{natbib}
#+LATEX_HEADER:\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
#+BIBLIOGRAPHY: MyBib plainnat


* Prelude       :noexport:

#+begin_src: emacs-lisp
 (setq org-latex-to-pdf-process                           
       '("xelatex -interaction nonstopmode %f"            
         "bibtex %b"                                      
         "xelatex -interaction nonstopmode %f"            
         "xelatex -interaction nonstopmode %f" ))

# (setq org-latex-to-pdf-process '("make BUILD_STRATEGY=xelatex onlysources=LitReview.tex"))
#+end_src


* Literature Review and Introduction 
#   DEADLINE: <2011-10-22 Sat>
#   EFFORT: 5 days
  

**  Auditory Processing



**  Cochlear nucleus 

The cochlear nucleus receives the primary ascending input from auditory nerve
fibres (ANFs) and contains a heterogeneous population of cell types.  Cell types
have been classified using a number of criteria including morphology,
immunohistochemistry, synaptic organisation, response to acoustic stimuli and
frequency tuning
\citep[see~reviews][]{RyugoParks:2003,CantBenson:2003,YoungOertel:2004}.  The
two major divisions are the dorsal (DCN) and ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN).
The different projections out of the nucleus reflect the highly specialled
parallel processing that is performed to extract particular acoustic information
contained in the auditory nerve.  The DCN in mammals generally has a laminar
structure with many interneurons, whereas the VCN consists of a magnocellular
core and a marginal shell.  The marginal shell is thought to be involved in
regulating the gain in the VCN \citep{EvansZhao:1993,GhoshalKim:1997}

The network in Figure 1 shows the proposed connections among cochlear nucleus
that are involved in modulating T stellate cells.  The cells and their synaptic
interaction will be discussed in the following sections.


#+LABEL:      fig:CNschematic
#+CAPTION:    Schematic of the cochlear nucleus stellate network showing connections between T stellate (TS - Blue), D stellate (DS- dark green), tuberculoventral (TV – light green) and Golgi (Red) cells.  Green diamonds indicates glycinergic inhibition, red diamonds indicate GABAergic inhibition. Dotted lines are likely connections; solid lines are experimentally confirmed connections; strength of connections indicated by thickness.  Arrows are excitatory connections. TS cells excite DS and TV cells and recurrently excite other TS cells.  DS cells are wide-band inhibitory cells that inhibit TS and TV cells.  TV cells are narrow-band inhibitory cells from the DCN that inhibit TS and DS cells.  Golgi cells (G) are GABAergic inhibitory cells that are thought to inhibit DS cells and weakly inhibit TS cells.  Auditory nerve inputs are not shown.
[[../figures/CNConnections3.pdf]]

*** CN Cell Types
**** T stellate (TS) cells

TS cells receive a narrow frequency band of ANF inputs and have either a
sustained or transient chopping (ChS and ChT) response to characteristic
frequency tone bursts (CF) \citep{SmithRhode:1989,BlackburnSachs:1989}.  Few
synaptic terminals contact on their soma, the majority of inputs contacting the
proximal dendrites \citep{Cant:1981}. TS cells are excitatory
\citep{SmithRhode:1989} and their axons leave via the trapezoidal body, hence
the T \citep{OertelWuEtAl:1990}.  In response to intracellular current injection
they fire with regularly spaced action potentials and have a linear
current-voltage response
\citep{Oertel:1983,OertelWuEtAl:1988,RhodeOertelEtAl:1983,SmithRhode:1989,FengKuwadaEtAl:1994}.
The response to acoustic stimulation is measured from a post-stimulus time
histogram \citep[PSTH][]{Pfeiffer:1966,BlackburnSachs:1989}.  The chopping
pattern shown in Figure 2 is characteristic of TS cells. Sustained and transient
choppers (ChS and ChT) are differentiated by the regularity of discharge
throughout the stimulus \citep{YoungRobertEtAl:1988}.  Recurrent excitation among T
stellate cells of similar CFs was first suggested by
\citet{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a}.  The small numbers of axonal collaterals are
confined to the same frequency band as their dendrites indicating recurrent
connections are between cells encoding a similar frequency
\citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a,PalmerWallaceEtAl:2003}.  This could
compensate for rapid transient adaptation in auditory nerve excitation, allowing
a robust representation of the spectral energy falling within the cell’s
response area to be transmitted to higher centres.

**** D stellate (DS) cells

DS cells are wide-band inhibitory cells that have an onset-chopping (On-C) PSTH
to tones and noise \citep{SmithRhode:1989}. Electromicroscopic studies of DS
neurons show profuse synapses on their soma and proximal dendrites
\citep{Cant:1981}. DS neurons usually have 3-4 main dendrites extending
perpendicular to the direction of auditory nerve fibres suggesting they receive
input from fibres encoding a wide range of frequencies
\citep{SmithRhode:1989,PaoliniClark:1999}. Intracellular responses to sounds
indicate the bandwidth of inputs to D stellate neurons is typically two octaves
below CF and one octave above
\citep{PaoliniClark:1999,PalmerWallaceEtAl:2003,ArnottWallaceEtAl:2004}.  DS
cell axon terminals contain the inhibitory neurotransmitter, glycine, and they
synapse locally occur in the VCN and DCN and send a commissural projection to
the contralateral cochlear nucleus that mediates fast inhibition between the
nuclei \citep{NeedhamPaolini:2003}.  T stellate cells outnumber D stellate cells
15:1 in the cat \citep{RyugoParks:2003}.

**** Tuberculoventral (TV) cells

Tuberculoventral neurons of the DCN provide a delayed, frequency-specific
glycinergic inhibition to TS and DS cells in the VCN
\citep{ZhangOertel:1993,WickesbergOertel:1988}.  The dendrites of TV cells are
aligned with ANFs and indicating narrow frequency tuning. TV cells have low
spontaneous rates and variable PSTHs; “pauser,” “chopper,” or “onset/sustained”
have been recorded \citep{ShofnerYoung:1985,SpirouDavisEtAl:1999}. They have
little or no response to wide band noise and firing rates to CF tones that are
non-monotonic functions of intensity.

Anterograde labelling in the DCN suggests glycinergic tuberculoventral cells
project tonotopically to the VCN not just on-CF, but also to the low and high
frequency side bands in the AVCN
\citep{OstapoffFengEtAl:1994,MunirathinamOstapoffEtAl:2004}.  Ultra-structural
labeling of synapses in the rat DCN suggest TV cells are inhibited by DS cells
and from sources in the DCN but excitatory inputs were not found from TS cells
\citep{RubioJuiz:2004}.  Intracellular responses from labeled TV cells in the mouse
show clear excitatory input from TS cells and diffuse inhibitory input from DS
cells \citep{ZhangOertel:1993}.

**** Golgi Cells as sources of GABAergic inputs

Golgi cells lie in the granule cell layer of the ventral cochlear nucleus and
are possible source of GABAergic input to D and T stellate cells
\citep{Mugnaini:1985,FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998,FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a}.
GABAergic inputs from periolivary neurons are also known to project to the VCN
\citep{OstapoffBensonEtAl:1997}. Intracellular recordings from T and D stellate
cells indicate a significant GABAergic influence that is present in slices where
the cochlear nucleus is isolated from olivary connections
\citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a}. Latency of excitation to AN shocks suggests
golgi cells are activated by type II auditory nerve fibers
\citep{BensonBerglundEtAl:1996,FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998}.  Therefore, type II
auditory nerve fibres could be involved in gain control through GABAergic
modulation of activity in the VCN.


*** CN Physiology

*** Functional role of inhibition

The actions of glycinergic and GABAergic inhibition are thought to play
different spectro-temporal processing roles in the cochlear nucleus.
Glycinergic inputs from D stellate and Tuberculoventral cells are predominantly
active at the onset of stimuli; hence provide enhanced temporal acuity and
dynamic range at onset.  Post onset and tonic inhibition is provided by GABA
inputs.  GABAergic inhibition acting on slow and fast receptors (GABAA and GABAB
respectively) is likely to mediate the strong post-onset inhibition in D
stellate cells \citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998,EvansZhao:1998}.  TS cells are
weakly inhibited by GABA \citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998}reflecting the smaller
number of GABAergic synapses \citep{FriedlandPongstapornEtAl:2003}.  GABAergic
inhibition in the VCN is derived from a number of possible sources,
intrinsically from golgi cells in the granule cell layer of the VCN or
extrinsically from olivocochlear efferents \citep{OstapoffBensonEtAl:1997}.

Axo-somatic inhibition from flat and pleomorphic terminals has been observed
adjoining prominently on D stellate cells and could possibly explain the OnC
response to tones and noise.  Evidence of axo-dendritic inhibition on T stellate
cells \citep{Cant:1981,SmithRhode:1989} led Sachs and colleagues to suggest that
T stellate cells overcome saturation of high spontaneous rate AN fibres by
proximal inhibitory inputs that shunt excitation from more distal inputs
\citep{WinslowBartaEtAl:1987,WangSachs:1994}. This mechanism was explored by
\citep{LaiWinslowEtAl:1994} using steady-state inputs and was also the subject
of my conference paper \citep{EagerGraydenEtAl:2004}.

GABAergic inhibition regulates the level of activity in the VCN \citep{PalombiCaspary:1992},
 The application of bicucilline abolishes the onset response of OnC
and OnL units \citep{EvansZhao:1998,PalombiCaspary:1992}.  Bicuculline, a GABAA
antagonist, raises the threshold and significantly increases OnC receptive field
to high and low frequencies, up to 10 times the receptive field width of AN
fibres \citep{EvansZhao:1998}.  Facilitation of response by spectral inputs
outside the conventional receptive field
\citep{WinterPalmer:1995,JiangPalmerEtAl:1996}, indicate the presence of tonic
inhibition in OnC units.  Inhibition acting post onset is likely to be a
dominant factor in OnC onset response properties rather than membrane based
mechanisms \citep{EvansZhao:1998}.  OnC showed little difference in response to
cosine or random phase harmonics, which improves temporal encoding of
fundamental in echoic situations \citep{EvansZhao:1998}. The post-onset
inhibition can last for up to 200-400msec, as observed by hyperpolarisation of
the soma potential \citep{PaoliniClareyEtAl:2004} and a reduction in spontaneous
firing rate \citep{RhodeGreenberg:1994}. \citet{MahendrasingamWallamEtAl:2004}
demonstrated the co-localization of glycine and GABA transporters by
immunofluorescence labelling of endings contacting spherical bushy cells. The
functional significance of co-localization of these two inhibitory
neurotransmitters is uncertain, but it is possible that glycinergic transmission
may be modulated by the activation of pre- and postsynaptic GABA receptors
\citep{LimAlvarezEtAl:2000}.


**  Synaptic organisation modulating T stellate cells

Advances in histological and pharmacological labelling techniques have produced
a flood of information about the anatomy, physiology, immunohistochemistry,
pharmacology and intrinsic membrane properties of the different cell types in
the CN. The synaptic organisation of cells in the cochlear nucleus of has been
examined in detail in various species (cat:
\citep*{Cant:1981,TolbertMorest:1982,SaintMorestEtAl:1989}, mice:
\citep*{WickesbergOertel:1988,WickesbergOertel:1990,WickesbergWhitlonEtAl:1991},
Guinea pig: \citep*{JuizHelfertEtAl:1996,OstapoffBensonEtAl:1997}, Rat:
\citep*{FriedlandPongstapornEtAl:2003,RubioJuiz:2004}.  Physiological studies
combined with labelling have given greater certainty to correlations between
physiological response types and morphological cell types
\citep[e.g. ][]{SmithRhode:1989,OstapoffFengEtAl:1994,PalmerWallaceEtAl:2003,ArnottWallaceEtAl:2004}.
Intracellular recordings have ascertained the electrical properties and the
different synaptic inputs of TS, DS and TV cells
\citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a,ZhangOertel:1993}.  Descriptions of current
dynamics for synaptic receptors \citep{GardnerTrussellEtAl:1999,HartyManis:1998}
and membrane channels
\citep{RothmanManis:2003,RothmanManis:2003a,RothmanManis:2003b} specific to the
VCN enable accurate mathematical models at the cell and synaptic level.  With
this information a realistic biological model of the stellate network is
attainable and can provide further insights into processing of acoustic
information.

*** Afferent input 
**** ANF to Golgi cells
**** ANF to Tuberculoventral cells
**** ANF to VCN stellate cells

*** GABAergic input to VCN stellate cells

*** Glycinergic input to Tuberculoventral cells
*** D stellate cells to T stellate cells

*** Other modulatory connections
*** Summary of connections within the stellate microcircuit of the cochlear nucleus


**  Computational models in the cochlear nucleus

A number of stellate models have been developed previously.  The basic
approaches include point neuron models
\citep{HewittMeddisEtAl:1992,ErikssonRobert:1999,PressnitzerMeddisEtAl:2001} and
conductance based compartmental models
\citep{BanksSachs:1991,WhiteYoungEtAl:1994,LaiWinslowEtAl:1994,WangSachs:1995}. Most
recently, a single compartment model with accurate membrane conductances was
developed based on whole cell recordings in VCN neurons
\citep{RothmanManis:2003b}.  The mechanisms that contribute to the electrical
activity of stellate cells are the voltage-gated ionic currents that give the
cell its chopping behaviour.
\citet{RothmanManis:2003,RothmanManis:2003a,RothmanManis:2003b} presented three
new potassium current models from whole cell recordings in the VCN.  The
significance of each membrane current in the spiking behaviour of bushy and
stellate cells is explored in their single-compartment modelling study
\citep{RothmanManis:2003b}.  The cell models I have designed incorporate Rothman
and Manis’ membrane currents into a multi-compartmental model similar to
\citet{BanksSachs:1991} stellate model.
   
These models have been used to explore some basic responses of stellate cells
seen physiologically: 
  - Regularity and chopping behaviour \citep{WhiteYoungEtAl:1994,ArleKim:1991,HewittMeddisEtAl:1992,BanksSachs:1991}
  - Synchronisation to envelope \citep{HewittMeddisEtAl:1992,GhoshalKimEtAl:1992,WangSachs:1995}
  - Enhancement of dynamic range relative to ANFs \citep{LaiWinslowEtAl:1994,ErikssonRobert:1999}
  - Effects of lateral inhibition \citep{Shamma:1985,ErikssonRobert:1999,PressnitzerMeddisEtAl:2001}

Lateral inhibition was studied in an abstract model of auditory processing by
\citet{Shamma:1985}.  The only model to consider a network with TV and DS cells
was \citet{ErikssonRobert:1999}.  Both these studies did not utilise the
important dendritic and membrane cell properties of T stellate cells and did not
include recurrent T stellate connections or GABAergic inhibition.

*** History of point-neuron chopper models

*** DCN Models and optimisation

*** VCN Models


**  Speech processing

*** Synchronisation to Amplitude Modulated Tones

The temporal modulation transfer function measures the precision of
phase-locking to envelope modulations of a CF tone by different modulating
frequencies (fm).  Frisina and colleagues first showed that phase-locking to
amplitude modulation (AM) in the CN is enhanced relative to the auditory nerve.
A number of studies have shown that the fundamental frequency is represented as
an interval code in most cochlear nucleus units
\citep{CarianiDelgutte:1996,Rhode:1995,Rhode:1998}.  Modulated signals have been
used extensively to analyse temporal coding in the cochlear nucleus
\citep{Moller:1976,FrisinaSmithEtAl:1990,FrisinaSmithEtAl:1990a,KimSirianniEtAl:1990,RhodeGreenberg:1994,Rhode:1994}.
Some response types in the cochlear nucleus preserve envelope information over a
wide range of stimulus levels, even above 100 dB SPL, where ANFs have reduced
synchronisation (FrisinaSmithEtAl:1990,FrisinaWaltonEtAl:1994,Rhode:1994}.
Studies of modulation in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus show a hierarchy of
enhancement: OnC > Chopper > PL, PLN
\citep{WangSachs:1994,Rhode:1998,RecioRhode:2000}. This enhancement is relative,
since choppers only phase-lock to modulations below 500Hz, PL and PLN units
perform better at higher modulation frequencies \citep{RhodeGreenberg:1994}.
The degree of phase locking is measured by the synchronisation coefficient
\citep{GoldbergBrownell:1973}.


#+CAPTION: Amplitude modulated waveform, spectrum and temporal modulation transfer function (tMTF) with low and band-pass functions typical TS cells. BMF: best modulation frequency.  Image reprinted from \citet{JorisSchreinerEtAl:2004}.

In the gerbil, chopper units generally have band-pass tMTF at high SPL, with the
fm inducing the highest synchronisation called the best modulation frequency
\citep[BMF, ][]{FrisinaSmithEtAl:1990}. Rhode and colleagues confirmed band-pass
tMTFs as well as some band-pass rate-based MTFs in chopper units in the cat
\citep{Rhode:1994,RhodeGreenberg:1994}.  The BMF of chopper units lie between 50
and 500Hz (gerbil and cat).  OnC units are well suited to encode a wide range of
fm with strong synchronisation due their precise onset Kim
\citep{KimRhodeEtAl:1986,JorisSmith:1998,RhodeGreenberg:1994,Rhode:1998}.

*** Vowel Representation in the Auditory Periphery

The representation of vowels in the auditory periphery has been studied using
recordings from a large population of auditory nerve fibres
\citep{SachsYoung:1979,YoungSachs:1979,DelgutteKiang:1984a,DelgutteKiang:1984b,DelgutteKiang:1984c}
and cochlear nucleus cells
\citep{BlackburnSachs:1990,KeilsonRichardsEtAl:1997,RecioRhode:2000}.  Recent
reviews of vowel encoding in the VCN \citep{May:2003,PalmerShamma:2003}
highlighted the spectral enhancement of formant peaks and suppression of formant
troughs by chopper units. Figure 4 shows the estimated rate-place representation
of auditory nerve and VCN units.  HSR ANFs and primary-like VCN units show
saturation of trough frequencies at moderate sound levels.  LSR units in the AN
and LSR primary-like VCN units presumably are able to encode spectrum at high
SPL.  The rate-place representation in chopper units (ChS and ChT) show
considerable robustness to intensity (right panels).  Suppression of spectral
troughs in the rate-place representation of ChT and ChS units is greater than
the suppression in LSR ANFs at high SPL.  Spectral enhancement in T stellate
cells cannot be attributed to lateral suppression in the auditory nerve, it
requires some form of lateral inhibitory mechanism that can perform spectral
enhancement by suppression of noise between peaks.

#+CAPTION: Estimated Rate-place representation in auditory nerve and cochlear nucleus neurons.  May and colleagues used a spectral manipulation procedure to change the location of the first and second formant and the first trough frequencies to coincide with the CF of a recorded cell. HSR high spontaneous rate, LSR low spontaneous rate, ANF auditory nerve fibre, Pri primary-like VCN unit \citep[Figure reprinted from ][]{May:2003}
[[../figures/May2003-Fig.png]]

Lateral inhibition in varying strengths is found in the responses of most cell
types in all divisions of the cochlear nucleus
\citep{EvansNelson:1973,Young:1984,RhodeGreenberg:1994a}.  ChT TS cells exhibit
strong sideband inhibition and respond to vowels with a clear and stable
representation of acoustic spectrum in their average firing rate at all stimulus
levels \citep{BlackburnSachs:1990,MayPrellEtAl:1998,RecioRhode:2000}.  Selective
listening to low and high spontaneous rate AN fibres could be one possible
mechanism \citep{WinslowSachsEtAl:1987}.  TS cells do receive inhibitory inputs
\citep{Cant:1981,SmithRhode:1989,FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998} hence they are
candidates for operation of lateral inhibition.  Also, recurrent excitation by
TS cells within the same frequency band could increase the rate.


**  Define the hypotheses

# from confirmation report
**** Hypothesis 1) 
Enhancement of the rate-place representation of spectral shape in ChT units,
relative to ANFs, is due to lateral inhibitory mechanisms ChT units maintain a
robust representation of stimulus spectrum despite a reduction in spectral shape
from auditory nerve inputs \citep{PalmerShamma:2003}. Lateral inhibition from
interneurons in the cochlear nucleus mediates the spectral enhancement seen in
the rate-place representation of transiently chopping T stellate cells. This
mechanism implies that the rate-place representation of complex stimuli will be
significantly reduced if any sources of inhibition are removed.

**** Hypothesis 2) 
Enhancement of the rate-place representation of spectral shape in ChT units,
relative to ANFs, is due in part to recurrent excitation by ChT units (T
stellate cells) within the same frequency band Intracellular and morphological
evidence suggests recurrent excitation among T stellate cells is likely to occur
\citep{FerragamoGoldingEtAl:1998a,PalmerWallaceEtAl:2003}.  Recurrent excitation
introduces considerable non-linearity to the network as regions of high energy
will elicit self-excitation.  This mechanism could explain the steady response
of ChT cells despite a reduction in sustained firing rate of ANFs due to
transient adaptation.

**** Hypothesis 3) 
Enhancement of the temporal representation of the fundamental frequency of
vowels in ChT units, relative to ANFs, is due to lateral inhibitory mechanisms
Synchronisation to regular envelope fluctuations in T stellate cells,
particularly ChT units, is enhanced relative to ANFs
\citep{FrisinaSmithEtAl:1990,RhodeGreenberg:1994}.  Enhanced synchronisation to
the fundamental frequency of vowels in T stellate cells could be used to
segregate concurrent signals \citep{KeilsonRichardsEtAl:1997}.  Tonic inhibition
from GABAergic sources and precise onset inhibition from glycinergic sources are
critical mechanisms that allow T stellate cells to accurately respond to
pulsatile stimuli, such as the f0 of vowels.
  
**** Hypothesis 4)
Lateral inhibition in the T stellate network is responsible for setting the
upper limits of psychophysical simultaneous and forward masking T stellate cells
convey important spectral information to higher auditory centres and are the
first to process across-spectral information in the auditory pathway. Forward
masking in T stellate cells has been shown to be comparable to the limits of
psychophysical perception \citep{BoettcherSalviEtAl:1990,Shore:1995} and is
heavily influenced by inhibition \citep{BackoffPalombiEtAl:1997,Shore:1998}.
Lateral suppression reduces the firing rate of T stellate cells
\citep{BlackburnSachs:1992,RhodeGreenberg:1994} indicating a spread of masking
to high and low frequency areas similar to the spreading function and offset of
\citet{Johnston:1988}.  I concede that there are significant masking effects
performed by other nuclei in the auditory pathway but these only add to the
masking performed in the cochlear nucleus. This hypothesis suggests the upper
limits of auditory detection for across-spectral and temporal masking is due
primarily to lateral inhibition in the stellate network.


** Aims of this thesis

 - biophysically realistic neural network model of the cochlear nucleus stellate
   microcircuit.
 - explore streamlined optimisation of all parameters in simplified CNSM using
   genetic algorithms
 - explore detailed, sequential optimisation of CNSM's parameters through simple
   responses
 - verification of optimised CNSM with AM coding and vowel processing, with
   explicit analysis of TS cells/choppers



** Significance

This PhD project is aimed at elucidating the important physiological mechanisms
involved in the early processing of sounds that are germane to spectral
enhancement and masking.  Computer modelling enhances our knowledge of complex
neural interactions in T stellate cells and provides further understanding of
inputs to higher centres.  The cochlear nucleus stellate network contains many
independent simple components that are combined in non-linear feedback and
feed-forward processes.  Intuition and simple calculation cannot serve to
predict the response of such a complex system, therefore a more complex model
must be used.  A biological neural network that contains a high degree of
realism at the individual cell level can contribute to our knowledge of synaptic
organisation in producing physiological behaviour.  The complexity of synaptic
organisation is compounded by inter-species and within-species
variation. Variation is managed by constraining the parameters to a range of
values to elicit physiological behaviour observed in vivo.

The implications for signal processing by lateral inhibition and recurrent
excitation are two fold: enhanced spectral representation and enhanced
synchronisation to the fundamental frequency.  The physiological and signal
processing significance of particular components in the network are addressed in
the first three hypotheses.  Rate-place representation of vowel spectrum are
analysed for the effects of lateral inhibition and recurrent excitation.
Spectral shape enhancement is important for a stable representation of stimulus
spectrum to be conveyed to higher auditory centres. Clarifying the roles of
glycinergic and GABAergic inhibition can contribute to the understanding of
spectral and temporal influences of inhibitory circuits in the cochlear nucleus.

The final hypothesis addresses the psychophysical relevance of the components in
the network.  Across-spectral processing within the cochlear nucleus stellate
network produces lateral and temporal suppression.  Higher processing stages in
the auditory system also perform some form of enhancement and masking, however
they are limited by the information contained at the output of the cochlear
nucleus.  Therefore signal processing performed by lateral inhibition and
recurrent excitation in the cochlear nucleus has a significant impact on
perception at higher levels of auditory processing.

Understanding the complex processing performed by the cochlear nucleus can also
contribute to understanding the limitations of cochlear implant processing
strategies.  Recordings form cochlear implant stimulated auditory nerve fibres
can possibly be used as inputs to the model to determine the responses within
the cochlear nucleus.  Understanding how the processing of sound in noisy
environments works within the network could aid in developing new sound
processing strategies for the cochlear implant.



#  #+begin_latex:
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\bibliography{MyBib}
#  #+end_latex
